From the chipmunk forum page, I came to know that the **chipmunk v7 overall is quite similar to chipmunk v6**.

* **Shape Filtering** - The biggest things(additions) to note are shape filters replacing layers/groups, the new collision handler C API and the more explicit names. Earlier chipmunk used groups to group the various shapes attached to a particular body. Now it has been replaced by something called shape-filters. The spatial hash first figures out the pairs of shapes that are likely to be near each other.it then passes them back to the space to perform some additional filtering on the pairs. If the pairs pass all the filters, then Chipmunk will test if the shapes are actually overlapping. If the shape to shape collision check passes, then the collision handler callbacks are called.

* **Autogeometry Library**-It's lets you turn procedural functions or images into collision geometry. Level design and asset creation is a time consuming portion of game development, and Chipmunk2D can significantly aid in creating the physics shapes. Chipmunk2D's automatic geometry generation can create fitted collision geometry from images. Now one doesn't need to type coordinates to generate collision shapes. The Autogeometry generation can create the physics shape for the terrain of your game from an image in milliseconds, allowing rapid iteration with just your graphics tools. This geometry can even be generated on the fly at runtime providing for spectacular techniques, such as deformable objects and terrain [Demo video on youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oacZwUGP11c). Here is a [youtube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QObxwXH6Ri8) which explains the autogeometry feature.

* **ARM NEON optimizations for mobile CPUs**(requires an ARM CPU with a NEON coprocessor)- ARM NEON optimized solver can speed up most Chipmunk2D simulations by 20-40%.

* **Multi-Threaded Solver** - Mobile development offers unique performance challenges, and Chipmunk2D is specifically optimized for speed by offering a multi-threaded and vectorized solver. New in Chipmunk 7, everyone has access to an alternative cpSpace type, cpHastySpace, which will automatically use the ARM NEON vector coprocessor available to most Android and iOS mobile devices. Even if you don't need the extra performance, it will help save your player's batteries. cpHastySpace allows one to enable extra [threads](https://www.google.co.in/search?client=ubuntu&channel=fs&q=what+are+threads+in+CS+&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8&gfe_rd=cr&ei=uqXaWNqsF8uL8Qf2u5OADg) for the solver to use as well.

* For iOS development, Chipmunk2D includes "Objective-Chipmunk2D", an Objective-C wrapper around all Chipmunk functionality. This provides greatly simplified memory management (especially when combined with automatic reference counting), an object oriented syntax, convenience classes for multi-touch input, and more. This speeds your development and reduces debugging
